docs-chef-io/content/server/auth.md, before:

+++
title = "Authentication"
draft = false

gh_repo = "chef-server"

[menu]
  [menu.server]
    title = "Authentication"
    identifier = "server/overview/Authentication"
    parent = "server/overview"
    weight = 40
+++

{{% chef_auth %}}

{{% chef_auth_authentication %}}

## Public and Private Keys

{{% security_chef_validator %}}

### Chef Infra Server Key Use

{{% chef_auth_authentication %}}

#### Chef Infra Client

{{% security_key_pairs_chef_client %}}

#### Knife

RSA public key-pairs are used to authenticate knife with the Chef Infra
Server every time knife attempts to access the Chef Infra Server. This
ensures that each instance of knife is properly registered with the Chef
Infra Server and that only trusted users can make changes to the data.

Knife can also use the `knife exec` subcommand to make specific,
authenticated requests to the Chef Infra Server. knife plugins can also
make authenticated requests to the Chef Infra Server by leveraging the
`knife exec` subcommand.

#### chef-validator

{{% security_chef_validator_context %}}

### Chef Infra Server Key Storage

Keys are stored in different locations, depending on if the location is
a node or a workstation.

#### Nodes

Each node stores its private key locally. This private key is generated
as part of the bootstrap process that initially installs Chef Infra
Client on the node. The first time Chef Infra Client runs on that node,
it uses the chef-validator to authenticate, but then on each subsequent
run it uses the private key generated for that client by the Chef Infra
Server.

#### Workstations

Each workstation stores its private key in the chef-repo. This private
key is generated by the Chef Infra Server and must be download from the
server and copied to the `.chef` directory in the chef-repo. If a new
private key is required, simply regenerate it from the Chef Infra Server
and re-copy it to the chef-repo.

{{% chef_repo_description %}}

{{% all_directory_chef %}}

### Chef Infra Server API Authentication

#### API Requests

{{% plugin_knife_summary %}}

{{% plugin_knife_using_authenticated_requests %}}

#### From the Web Interface

The Chef Infra Server user interface uses the Chef Infra Server API to
perform most operations. This ensures that authentication requests to
the Chef Infra Server are authorized. This authentication process is
handled automatically and is not something that users of the hosted Chef
Infra Server will need to manage. For the on-premises Chef Infra Server,
the authentication keys used by the web interface will need to be
maintained by the individual administrators who are responsible for
managing the server.

#### Other Options

The most common ways to interact with the Chef Infra Server using the
Chef Infra Server API abstract the API from the user. That said, the
Chef Infra Server API can be interacted with directly. The following
sections describe a few of the ways that are available for doing that.

**cURL**

An API request can be made using cURL, which is a Bash shell script that
requires two utilities: awk and openssl. The following example shows how
an authenticated request can be made using the Chef Infra Server API and
cURL:

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

_chef_dir () {
  # Helper function:
  # Recursive function that searches for chef configuration directory
  # It looks upward from the cwd until it hits /.  If no directory is found,
  # ~/.chef is chosen if it exists
  # You could simply hard-code the path below

  if [ "$PWD" = "/" ]; then
  if [ -d ".chef" ]; then
    echo "/.chef"
      elif [ -d "$HOME/.chef" ]; then
        echo "$HOME/.chef"
      fi
    return
  fi

  if [ -d '.chef' ];then
    echo "${PWD}/.chef"
  else
    (cd ..; _chef_dir)
  fi
}

_chomp () {
  # helper function to remove newlines
  awk '{printf "%s", $0}'
}

chef_api_request() {
  # This is the meat-and-potatoes, or rice-and-vegetables, your preference really.

  local method path body timestamp chef_server_url client_name hashed_body hashed_path
  local canonical_request headers auth_headers

  chef_server_url="https://api.opscode.com/organizations/my_org"
  # '/organizations/ORG_NAME' is needed
  if echo $chef_server_url | grep -q "/organizations/" ; then
    endpoint=/organizations/${chef_server_url#*/organizations/}${2%%\?*}
  else
    endpoint=${2%%\?*}
  fi
  path=${chef_server_url}$2
  client_name="chef_user"
  method=$1
  body=$3

  hashed_path=$(echo -n "$endpoint" | openssl dgst -sha1 -binary | openssl enc -base64)
  hashed_body=$(echo -n "$body" | openssl dgst -sha1 -binary | openssl enc -base64)
  timestamp=$(date -u "+%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ")

  canonical_request="Method:$method\nHashed Path:$hashed_path\nX-Ops-Content-Hash:$hashed_body\nX-Ops-Timestamp:$timestamp\nX-Ops-UserId:$client_name"
  headers="-H X-Ops-Timestamp:$timestamp \
    -H X-Ops-Userid:$client_name \
    -H X-Chef-Version:0.10.4 \
    -H Accept:application/json \
    -H X-Ops-Content-Hash:$hashed_body \
    -H X-Ops-Sign:version=1.0"

  auth_headers=$(printf "$canonical_request" | openssl rsautl -sign -inkey \
    "$(_chef_dir)/${client_name}.pem" | openssl enc -base64 | _chomp |  awk '{ll=int(length/60);i=0; \
    while (i<=ll) {printf " -H X-Ops-Authorization-%s:%s", i+1, substr($0,i*60+1,60);i=i+1}}')

  case $method in
    GET)
      curl_command="curl $headers $auth_headers $path"
      $curl_command
      ;;
    *)
      echo "Unknown Method. I only know: GET" >&2
      return 1
      ;;
    esac
  }

 chef_api_request "$@"
```

After saving this shell script to a file named `chef_api_request`, use
it similar to the following:

```bash
bash chef_api_request GET "/clients"
```

**PyChef**

An API request can be made using PyChef, which is a Python library that
meets the `Mixlib::Authentication` requirements so that it can easily
interact with the Chef Infra Server. The following example shows how an
authenticated request can be made using the Chef Infra Server API and
PyChef:

```python
from chef import autoconfigure, Node

api = autoconfigure()
n = Node('web1')
print n['fqdn']
n['myapp']['version'] = '1.0'
n.save()
```

and the following example shows how to make API calls directly:

```python
from chef import autoconfigure

api = autoconfigure()
print api.api_request('GET', '/clients')
```

The previous examples assume that the current working directory is such
that PyChef can find a valid configuration file in the same manner as
Chef Infra Client or knife. For more about PyChef, see:
<https://github.com/coderanger/pychef>.

**Ruby**

On a system with Chef Infra Client installed, use Ruby to make an
authenticated request to the Chef Infra Server:

```ruby
require 'chef/config'
require 'chef/log'
require 'chef/rest'

chef_server_url = 'https://chefserver.com'
client_name = 'clientname'
signing_key_filename = '/path/to/pem/for/clientname'

rest = Chef::REST.new(chef_server_url, client_name, signing_key_filename)
puts rest.get_rest('/clients')
```

or:

```ruby
require 'mixlib/cli'
require 'chef'
require 'chef/node'
require 'chef/mixin/xml_escape'
require 'json'

config_file = 'c:/chef/client.rb'
Chef::Config.from_file(config_file)
Chef::Log.level = Chef::Config[:log_level]

def Usage()
  puts '/etc/chef/client.rb' # The config file location, e.g. ~/home/.chef/config.rb etc
  config_file = gets.chomp
  if (!File.exist?(config_file))
    puts 'config_file #{config_file} does not exist. Exiting.\n'
    exit
  end
  STDOUT.puts <<-EOF
    Choose options e.g. 1

    1 Display all nodes per environment
    2 Display all nodes in detail (can be slow if there a large number of nodes)
    9 Exit
  EOF
end

def ExecuteUserChoice()
  testoption = gets.chomp
  case testoption
  when '1'
    Execute(method(:DisplayNodesPerEnv))
  when '2'
    Execute(method(:DisplayNodesDetail))
  when '9'
    puts 'exit'
  else
    puts 'Unknown option #{testoption}. Exiting\n'
    exit
  end
end

def DisplayNodesPerEnv()
  Chef::Environment.list(false).each do |envr|
    print 'ENVIRONMENT: ', envr[0], '\n'
    Chef::Node.list_by_environment(envr[0], false).each do |node_info|
      print '\tNODE: ', node_info[0], '\n'
      print '\t\tURL: ', node_info[1], '\n'
    end
  end
end

def DisplayNodesDetail()
  Chef::Node.list(true).each do |node_array|
    node = node_array[1]
    print '#{node.name}\n'
    print '\t#{node['fqdn']}\n'
    print '\t#{node['kernel']['machine']}\n'
    print '\t#{node['kernel']['os']}\n'
    print '\t#{node['platform']}\n'
    print '\t#{node['platform_version']}\n'
    print '\t#{node.chef_environment}\n'
    print '\t#{node.run_list.roles}\n'
  end
end

def Execute(option)
  begin
    profilestart = Time.now
    option.call()
    profileend = Time.now
    timeofrun = profileend - profilestart
    print 'Time taken = #{timeofrun}'
  rescue Exception => ex
    print 'Error calling chef API'
    print ex.message
    print ex.backtrace.join('\n')
  end
end

Usage()
ExecuteUserChoice()
```

Another way Ruby can be used with the Chef Infra Server API is to get
objects from the Chef Infra Server, and then interact with the returned
data using Ruby methods. Whenever possible, the Chef Infra Server API
will return an object of the relevant type. The returned object is then
available to be called by other methods. For example, the `api.get`
method can be used to return a node named `foobar`, and then `.destroy`
can be used to delete that node:

```none
silly_node = api.get('/nodes/foobar')
silly_node.destroy
```

### Debug Authentication Issues

In some cases, Chef Infra Client may receive a 401 response to the
authentication request and a 403 response to an authorization request.
An authentication error error may look like the following:

```bash
[Wed, 05 Oct 2011 15:43:34 -0700] INFO: HTTP Request Returned 401
Unauthorized: Failed to authenticate as node_name. Ensure that your node_name and client key are correct.
```

To debug authentication problems, determine which Chef Infra Client is
attempting to authenticate. This is often found in the log messages for
that Chef Infra Client. Debug logging can be enabled on a Chef Infra
Client using the following command:

```bash
chef-client -l debug
```

When debug logging is enabled, a log entry will look like the following:

```bash
[Wed, 05 Oct 2011 22:05:35 +0000] DEBUG: Signing the request as NODE_NAME
```

If the authentication request occurs during the initial Chef Infra
Client run, the issue is most likely with the private key.

If the authentication is happening on the node, there are a number of
common causes:

-   The `client.pem` file is incorrect. This can be fixed by deleting
    the `client.pem` file and re-running Chef Infra Client. When Chef
    Infra Client re-runs, it will re-attempt to register with the Chef
    Infra Server and generate the correct key.
-   A `node_name` is different from the one used during the initial Chef
    Infra Client run. This can happen for a number of reasons. For
    example, if the client.rb file does not specify the correct node
    name and the host name has recently changed. This issue can be
    resolved by explicitly setting the node name in the client.rb file
    or by using the `-N` option for the Chef Infra Client executable.
-   The system clock has drifted from the actual time by more than 15
    minutes. This can be fixed by syncing the clock with an Network Time
    Protocol (NTP) server.

## Authorization

For more information about Chef Infra Server Authorization, see
[Organizations and Groups]({{< relref "server_orgs" >}}).

## Chef Infra Server API

For more information about using the Chef Infra Server API endpoints see
[Chef Infra Server API]({{< relref "api_chef_server" >}}).

Commit message:

Update documentation for workstation keys
Don't document the old chef-repo setup. Document storing the keys in the ~./chef directory. That's where we want it.

Signed-off-by: Tim Smith <tsmith@chef.io>

docs-chef-io/content/server/auth.md, after:

+++
title = "Authentication"
draft = false

gh_repo = "chef-server"

[menu]
  [menu.server]
    title = "Authentication"
    identifier = "server/overview/Authentication"
    parent = "server/overview"
    weight = 40
+++

{{% chef_auth %}}

{{% chef_auth_authentication %}}

## Public and Private Keys

{{% security_chef_validator %}}

### Chef Infra Server Key Use

{{% chef_auth_authentication %}}

#### Chef Infra Client

{{% security_key_pairs_chef_client %}}

#### Knife

RSA public key-pairs are used to authenticate knife with the Chef Infra
Server every time knife attempts to access the Chef Infra Server. This
ensures that each instance of knife is properly registered with the Chef
Infra Server and that only trusted users can make changes to the data.

Knife can also use the `knife exec` subcommand to make specific,
authenticated requests to the Chef Infra Server. knife plugins can also
make authenticated requests to the Chef Infra Server by leveraging the
`knife exec` subcommand.

#### chef-validator

{{% security_chef_validator_context %}}

### Chef Infra Server Key Storage

Keys are stored in different locations, depending on if the location is
a node or a workstation.

#### Nodes

Each node stores its private key locally. This private key is generated
as part of the bootstrap process that initially installs Chef Infra
Client on the node. The first time Chef Infra Client runs on that node,
it uses the chef-validator to authenticate, but then on each subsequent
run it uses the private key generated for that client by the Chef Infra
Server.

#### Workstations

Each workstation stores its private key in the user's `~/.chef` directory.
This private key is generated by the Chef Infra Server and must be download
from the server and copied to the `~/.chef` directory manually. If a new
private key is required, it can be regenerated from the Chef Infra Server
and copied to the `~/.chef` directory again.

{{% chef_repo_description %}}

{{% all_directory_chef %}}

### Chef Infra Server API Authentication

#### API Requests

{{% plugin_knife_summary %}}

{{% plugin_knife_using_authenticated_requests %}}

#### From the Web Interface

The Chef Infra Server user interface uses the Chef Infra Server API to
perform most operations. This ensures that authentication requests to
the Chef Infra Server are authorized. This authentication process is
handled automatically and is not something that users of the hosted Chef
Infra Server will need to manage. For the on-premises Chef Infra Server,
the authentication keys used by the web interface will need to be
maintained by the individual administrators who are responsible for
managing the server.

#### Other Options

The most common ways to interact with the Chef Infra Server using the
Chef Infra Server API abstract the API from the user. That said, the
Chef Infra Server API can be interacted with directly. The following
sections describe a few of the ways that are available for doing that.

**cURL**

An API request can be made using cURL, which is a Bash shell script that
requires two utilities: awk and openssl. The following example shows how
an authenticated request can be made using the Chef Infra Server API and
cURL:

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash

_chef_dir () {
  # Helper function:
  # Recursive function that searches for chef configuration directory
  # It looks upward from the cwd until it hits /.  If no directory is found,
  # ~/.chef is chosen if it exists
  # You could simply hard-code the path below

  if [ "$PWD" = "/" ]; then
  if [ -d ".chef" ]; then
    echo "/.chef"
      elif [ -d "$HOME/.chef" ]; then
        echo "$HOME/.chef"
      fi
    return
  fi

  if [ -d '.chef' ];then
    echo "${PWD}/.chef"
  else
    (cd ..; _chef_dir)
  fi
}

_chomp () {
  # helper function to remove newlines
  awk '{printf "%s", $0}'
}

chef_api_request() {
  # This is the meat-and-potatoes, or rice-and-vegetables, your preference really.

  local method path body timestamp chef_server_url client_name hashed_body hashed_path
  local canonical_request headers auth_headers

  chef_server_url="https://api.opscode.com/organizations/my_org"
  # '/organizations/ORG_NAME' is needed
  if echo $chef_server_url | grep -q "/organizations/" ; then
    endpoint=/organizations/${chef_server_url#*/organizations/}${2%%\?*}
  else
    endpoint=${2%%\?*}
  fi
  path=${chef_server_url}$2
  client_name="chef_user"
  method=$1
  body=$3

  hashed_path=$(echo -n "$endpoint" | openssl dgst -sha1 -binary | openssl enc -base64)
  hashed_body=$(echo -n "$body" | openssl dgst -sha1 -binary | openssl enc -base64)
  timestamp=$(date -u "+%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ")

  canonical_request="Method:$method\nHashed Path:$hashed_path\nX-Ops-Content-Hash:$hashed_body\nX-Ops-Timestamp:$timestamp\nX-Ops-UserId:$client_name"
  headers="-H X-Ops-Timestamp:$timestamp \
    -H X-Ops-Userid:$client_name \
    -H X-Chef-Version:0.10.4 \
    -H Accept:application/json \
    -H X-Ops-Content-Hash:$hashed_body \
    -H X-Ops-Sign:version=1.0"

  auth_headers=$(printf "$canonical_request" | openssl rsautl -sign -inkey \
    "$(_chef_dir)/${client_name}.pem" | openssl enc -base64 | _chomp |  awk '{ll=int(length/60);i=0; \
    while (i<=ll) {printf " -H X-Ops-Authorization-%s:%s", i+1, substr($0,i*60+1,60);i=i+1}}')

  case $method in
    GET)
      curl_command="curl $headers $auth_headers $path"
      $curl_command
      ;;
    *)
      echo "Unknown Method. I only know: GET" >&2
      return 1
      ;;
    esac
  }

 chef_api_request "$@"
```

After saving this shell script to a file named `chef_api_request`, use
it similar to the following:

```bash
bash chef_api_request GET "/clients"
```

**PyChef**

An API request can be made using PyChef, which is a Python library that
meets the `Mixlib::Authentication` requirements so that it can easily
interact with the Chef Infra Server. The following example shows how an
authenticated request can be made using the Chef Infra Server API and
PyChef:

```python
from chef import autoconfigure, Node

api = autoconfigure()
n = Node('web1')
print n['fqdn']
n['myapp']['version'] = '1.0'
n.save()
```

and the following example shows how to make API calls directly:

```python
from chef import autoconfigure

api = autoconfigure()
print api.api_request('GET', '/clients')
```

The previous examples assume that the current working directory is such
that PyChef can find a valid configuration file in the same manner as
Chef Infra Client or knife. For more about PyChef, see:
<https://github.com/coderanger/pychef>.

**Ruby**

On a system with Chef Infra Client installed, use Ruby to make an
authenticated request to the Chef Infra Server:

```ruby
require 'chef/config'
require 'chef/log'
require 'chef/rest'

chef_server_url = 'https://chefserver.com'
client_name = 'clientname'
signing_key_filename = '/path/to/pem/for/clientname'

rest = Chef::REST.new(chef_server_url, client_name, signing_key_filename)
puts rest.get_rest('/clients')
```

or:

```ruby
require 'mixlib/cli'
require 'chef'
require 'chef/node'
require 'chef/mixin/xml_escape'
require 'json'

config_file = 'c:/chef/client.rb'
Chef::Config.from_file(config_file)
Chef::Log.level = Chef::Config[:log_level]

def Usage()
  puts '/etc/chef/client.rb' # The config file location, e.g. ~/home/.chef/config.rb etc
  config_file = gets.chomp
  if (!File.exist?(config_file))
    puts 'config_file #{config_file} does not exist. Exiting.\n'
    exit
  end
  STDOUT.puts <<-EOF
    Choose options e.g. 1

    1 Display all nodes per environment
    2 Display all nodes in detail (can be slow if there a large number of nodes)
    9 Exit
  EOF
end

def ExecuteUserChoice()
  testoption = gets.chomp
  case testoption
  when '1'
    Execute(method(:DisplayNodesPerEnv))
  when '2'
    Execute(method(:DisplayNodesDetail))
  when '9'
    puts 'exit'
  else
    puts 'Unknown option #{testoption}. Exiting\n'
    exit
  end
end

def DisplayNodesPerEnv()
  Chef::Environment.list(false).each do |envr|
    print 'ENVIRONMENT: ', envr[0], '\n'
    Chef::Node.list_by_environment(envr[0], false).each do |node_info|
      print '\tNODE: ', node_info[0], '\n'
      print '\t\tURL: ', node_info[1], '\n'
    end
  end
end

def DisplayNodesDetail()
  Chef::Node.list(true).each do |node_array|
    node = node_array[1]
    print '#{node.name}\n'
    print '\t#{node['fqdn']}\n'
    print '\t#{node['kernel']['machine']}\n'
    print '\t#{node['kernel']['os']}\n'
    print '\t#{node['platform']}\n'
    print '\t#{node['platform_version']}\n'
    print '\t#{node.chef_environment}\n'
    print '\t#{node.run_list.roles}\n'
  end
end

def Execute(option)
  begin
    profilestart = Time.now
    option.call()
    profileend = Time.now
    timeofrun = profileend - profilestart
    print 'Time taken = #{timeofrun}'
  rescue Exception => ex
    print 'Error calling chef API'
    print ex.message
    print ex.backtrace.join('\n')
  end
end

Usage()
ExecuteUserChoice()
```

Another way Ruby can be used with the Chef Infra Server API is to get
objects from the Chef Infra Server, and then interact with the returned
data using Ruby methods. Whenever possible, the Chef Infra Server API
will return an object of the relevant type. The returned object is then
available to be called by other methods. For example, the `api.get`
method can be used to return a node named `foobar`, and then `.destroy`
can be used to delete that node:

```none
silly_node = api.get('/nodes/foobar')
silly_node.destroy
```

### Debug Authentication Issues

In some cases, Chef Infra Client may receive a 401 response to the
authentication request and a 403 response to an authorization request.
An authentication error error may look like the following:

```bash
[Wed, 05 Oct 2011 15:43:34 -0700] INFO: HTTP Request Returned 401
Unauthorized: Failed to authenticate as node_name. Ensure that your node_name and client key are correct.
```

To debug authentication problems, determine which Chef Infra Client is
attempting to authenticate. This is often found in the log messages for
that Chef Infra Client. Debug logging can be enabled on a Chef Infra
Client using the following command:

```bash
chef-client -l debug
```

When debug logging is enabled, a log entry will look like the following:

```bash
[Wed, 05 Oct 2011 22:05:35 +0000] DEBUG: Signing the request as NODE_NAME
```

If the authentication request occurs during the initial Chef Infra
Client run, the issue is most likely with the private key.

If the authentication is happening on the node, there are a number of
common causes:

-   The `client.pem` file is incorrect. This can be fixed by deleting
    the `client.pem` file and re-running Chef Infra Client. When Chef
    Infra Client re-runs, it will re-attempt to register with the Chef
    Infra Server and generate the correct key.
-   A `node_name` is different from the one used during the initial Chef
    Infra Client run. This can happen for a number of reasons. For
    example, if the client.rb file does not specify the correct node
    name and the host name has recently changed. This issue can be
    resolved by explicitly setting the node name in the client.rb file
    or by using the `-N` option for the Chef Infra Client executable.
-   The system clock has drifted from the actual time by more than 15
    minutes. This can be fixed by syncing the clock with an Network Time
    Protocol (NTP) server.

## Authorization

For more information about Chef Infra Server Authorization, see
[Organizations and Groups]({{< relref "server_orgs" >}}).

## Chef Infra Server API

For more information about using the Chef Infra Server API endpoints see
[Chef Infra Server API]({{< relref "api_chef_server" >}}).
