+++
title = "Backup and Restore a Standalone or Frontend install"
draft = false

gh_repo = "chef-server"

aliases = ["/server_backup_restore.html", "/runbook/server_backup_restore/"]

[menu]
  [menu.server]
    title = "Backup and Restore"
    identifier = "server/manage/Backup and Restore"
    parent = "server/manage"
    weight = 10
+++

Periodic backups of Chef Infra Server are essential to managing and maintaining a healthy configuration and ensuring the availability of important data for restoring your system, if required. The backup takes around 4 to 5 minutes for each GB of data on a t3.2xlarge AWS EC2 instance.

## Requirements

- Chef Infra Server 14.11.36 or later

## chef-server-ctl

For the majority of use cases, `chef-server-ctl backup` is the recommended way to take backups of the Chef Infra Server. Use the following commands for managing backups of Chef Infra Server data, and for restoring those backups.

### backup

{{% chef-server/ctl_chef_server_backup %}}

#### Options

{{% chef-server/ctl_chef_server_backup_options %}}

#### Syntax

{{% chef-server/ctl_chef_server_backup_syntax %}}

### restore

{{% chef-server/ctl_chef_server_restore %}}

#### Options

{{% chef-server/ctl_chef_server_restore_options %}}

#### Syntax

{{% chef-server/ctl_chef_server_restore_syntax %}}

#### Examples

```bash
chef-server-ctl restore /path/to/tar/archive.tgz
```

## Backup and restore a Chef Backend install

{{% chef-server/EOL_backend %}}

In a disaster recovery scenario, the backup and restore processes allow you to restore a data backup into a newly built cluster. The restore process is not intended for recovering individual machine in the Chef Backend cluster or for a point-in-time rollback of an existing cluster.

### Backup

Restoring your data in an emergency requires existing backups in the `.tar` format of:

- The Chef Backend cluster data
- The Chef Infra Server configuration file

To make backups use in future disaster scenarios:

1. On a follower Chef Backend node, create the back-end data backup with: `chef-backend-ctl backup`
2. On Chef Infra Server node, create the server configuration backup with: `chef-server-ctl backup --config-only`
3. Move the tar archives created in steps (1) and (2) to a long-term storage location

### Restore

The restore process requires Chef Infra Server 14.11.36 or later.

Restoring Chef Backend for a Chef Infra Server cluster has two steps:

1. Restore the back-end services
2. Restore the front-end services

#### Backend Restore

1. Restoring the back-end services creates a new cluster. Select one node as the leader and restore the backup on that node first. Use the IP address of the leader node as the value for the `--publish_address` option.

    ```bash
    chef-backend-ctl restore --publish_address my.company.ip.address /path/to/backup.tgz
    ```

    For example,

    ```bash
    chef-backend-ctl restore --publish_address 198.52.1000.0 /backups/2021/backup.tgz
    ```

2. The restore process creates a new cluster and generates a JSON secrets file for setting up communication between the nodes. Locate the file in `/etc/chef-backend/chef-backend-secrets.json` and copy it to each node as `tmp/chef-backend-secrets.json`

3. Join follower nodes to your new Chef Backend cluster. For each follower node, run the `join-cluster` subcommand to establish communication in the cluster. The command uses:

    1. The IP address of the new leader node.
    2. The IP address of the follower node that joins through the `--publish_address` option.
    3. The secrets option `-s` with the `/tmp/chef-backend-secrets.json` file on the node.

    The `join-cluster` command is:

    ```bash
    chef-backend-ctl join-cluster --accept-license --yes --quiet IP_OF_LEADER_NODE --publish_address IP_OF_FOLLOWER_NODE -s /tmp/chef-backend-secrets.json
    ```

    For example:

    ```bash
    chef-backend-ctl join-cluster --accept-license --yes --quiet 198.51.100.0 --publish_address 203.0.113.0 -s /tmp/chef-backend-secrets.json
    ```

4. Generate the configuration for the front end from the new cluster:

    ```bash
    chef-backend-ctl gen-server-config chefserver.internal > /tmp/chef-server.rb
    ```

#### Frontend Restore

{{< note >}}
The Chef Infra Server HA install documentation includes a [second process](https://docs.chef.io/server/install_server_ha/#step-5-install-and-configure-the-first-frontend) for generating and reconfiguring the front-end configuration file.
{{< /note >}}

1. Restore Chef Infra Server from your backed-up Infra Server configuration generated by the new cluster.

    ```bash
    chef-server-ctl restore /path/to/chef-server-backup.tgz
    ```

2. Copy the Chef generated config `/tmp/chef-server.rb`, to the front end node and replace it onto `/etc/opscode/chef-server.rb`.

   Run reconfigure to apply the changes.

   ```bash
    chef-server-ctl reconfigure
   ```

3. Run the `reindex` command to re-populate your search index

    ```bash
    chef-server-ctl reindex --all
    ```

{{< note >}}
If `knife search` does not return the expected results and data is present in the Chef Infra Server after reindex, then [verify the search index configuration](/server/ctl_chef_server/#reindex).
{{< /note >}}

### Verify

The best practice for maintaining useful backup is to periodically verify your backup by restoring:

- One Chef Backend node
- One Chef Infra Server node

Verify that you can execute knife commands and Chef Infra Client runs against your these restored nodes.

## Troubleshoot

The restore process requires Chef Infra Server 14.11.36 or later.

For a quick fix you can edit `/opt/opscode/embedded/lib/ruby/gems/2.7.0/gems/chef-server-ctl-1.1.0/bin/chef-server-ctl` and add the following methods:

```bash
# External Solr/ElasticSearch Commands
def external_status_opscode_solr4(_detail_level)
  solr = external_services['opscode-solr4']['external_url']
  begin
    Chef::HTTP.new(solr).get(solr_status_url)
    puts "run: opscode-solr4: connected OK to #{solr}"
  rescue StandardError => e
    puts "down: opscode-solr4: failed to connect to #{solr}: #{e.message.split("\n")[0]}"
  end
end

def external_cleanse_opscode_solr4(perform_delete)
  log <<-EOM
   Cleansing data in a remote Sol4 instance is not currently supported.
  EOM
end

def solr_status_url
  case running_service_config('opscode-erchef')['search_provider']
  when "elasticsearch"
    "/chef"
  else
    "/admin/ping?wt=json"
  end
end
```
