src/oc_erchef/apps/chef_index/README.md, before:

# Chef Index #

This is the search/indexing layer for chef.

Chef is a system integration framework written in erlang and ruby and designed to bring the benefits of configuration management to your entire infrastructure.

The Chef Wiki is the definitive source of user documentation.

    http://wiki.chef.io/display/chef/Home

This README focuses on developers who want to modify Chef source code.  For users who just want to run the latest and greatest Chef development version in their environment, see:

   [TODO: add URL when available for erlang chef build process]

# DEVELOPMENT:

Before working on the code, if you plan to contribute your changes, you need to read the Opscode Contributing document.

    http://wiki.chef.io/display/chef/How+to+Contribute

You will also need to set up the repository with the appropriate branches. We document the process on the Chef Wiki.

    http://wiki.chef.io/display/chef/Working+with+git

Once your repository is set up, you can start working on the code.

# LINKS:

Source:

    https://github.com/opscode/chef_index

Tickets/Issues:

    http://tickets.chef.io/

Documentation:

    http://wiki.chef.io/display/chef/Home/

# LICENSE:

Copyright 2011-2012 Opscode, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Update README so changes to oc_reporting get synced correctly.

src/oc_erchef/apps/chef_index/README.md, after:

# Chef Index #

This is the search/indexing layer for chef.

Chef is a system integration framework written in erlang and ruby and designed to bring the benefits of configuration management to your entire infrastructure.

The Chef Wiki is the definitive source of user documentation.

    http://wiki.chef.io/display/chef/Home

This README focuses on developers who want to modify Chef source code.  For users who just want to run the latest and greatest Chef development version in their environment, see:

   [TODO: add URL when available for erlang chef build process]

# DEVELOPMENT:

Before working on the code, if you plan to contribute your changes, you need to read the Opscode Contributing document.

    http://wiki.chef.io/display/chef/How+to+Contribute

You will also need to set up the repository with the appropriate branches. We document the process on the Chef Wiki.

    http://wiki.chef.io/display/chef/Working+with+git

Once your repository is set up, you can start working on the code. **If your changes will affect oc_reporting, make sure to sync your changes in the [chef_index](https://github.com/chef/chef_index) repository.**

# LINKS:

Source:

    https://github.com/opscode/chef_index

Tickets/Issues:

    http://tickets.chef.io/

Documentation:

    http://wiki.chef.io/display/chef/Home/

# LICENSE:

Copyright 2011-2012 Opscode, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
